---
title: "Some free software are really free"
date: 2013-12-21 03:30
tags: [Hacking, Rants, .planet.debian]
---

I read a post titled ["Free software is NOT Free"][mecho-fsinf], and
that triggered a few thoughts, which I would like to share here. While
the post has some good thoughts, there are points in it which I
disagree with strongly. You see, I've been writing free software
almost half my life, most of the things I contributed to various
projects, and the vast majority of my own projects, were made because
it made **me** feel good. Because I scratched an itch, and sharing
filled me with a sense of accomplishment.

I always had bills to pay, and I have a day job to get that kind of
thing sorted, yet, I do not believe that the quality of my free
software work suffers because of that. Do I have less time? Yes, I do.
But slower pace does not mean lesser quality - more often than not, I
found that slower pace leads to better considerations, more care given
to each change, because fixing it later, fast, is much more costly, so
you make sure that your improvements will stand the trial of time.

But I digress. I want to share a different view on the topic, based on
my own experiences.

 [mecho-fsinf]: http://mechoslav.wordpress.com/2013/12/23/free-software-is-not-free/

<!-- more -->

When I first got into free software, I was young, bright-eyed, full of
hopes and illusions of grandieur. I did my part of small contributions
here and there, and every bit of "Thanks!", every bit of feedback - be
it criticism or rejection - contributed to my development. This part
of the free software culture is still important to me, and remains a
major factor behind my desire to work on free software. Later on,
there came another revelation: people actually use the stuff I write!
That's an awesome feeling too, but with it, comes a burden too:
supporting users, and trying to cater to every need that arises. To
combat this, to not drown, you need to learn to say "No". It is hard,
but as maintainer of a project, it's your task to keep it
maintainable, and you need to know your limits. Would it be better if
you could fulfil every wish? If you could do everything you ever
dreamed of? You may think the answer is yes, but you're wrong. The
answer is "No".

Not everything needs to be done, not every wish needs to come true. As
always, there's a balance. Limiting the amount of time that can be
spent on a project helps keep that balance. And when balance is found,
the project becomes more mature, maintenance stops being a chore you
do not want to do, but have to, and instead becomes something you
actually enjoy. We are human beings, we dream and wish for a lot, and
we have a hard time realising our limits. That makes us feel sad,
sometimes even inadequate. Having less time puts us into a different
position, where were are forced to reevaluate how we spend the little
free time we have. In the long run, I believe that is good for free
software.

But there's an even better way to approach the problem! You want to
work on your projects, right? Yet, you also want to pay your bills.
And you are a fan of free (as in freedom) software. When I found
myself in a position like that, when I was looking for work, I was
looking at companies which are friendly towards free software, and
even have a few on their portfolio. Working for such a company allows
me to be happy with myself, by not betraying my own beliefs, and on
the side, still spend time on my own things.

When I spend my day [working on free software][open-pastures], I feel
energised, and during lunch break, I can look through my plans for my
own projects (some of which are related to my work too, which makes it
even easier to spend time on them), plan ahead, and go home with a
head full of ideas. No exhaustion after a daunting day of hacking
proprietary software, with a sinking heart. No feeling guilty of not
taking good care of your projects, because you do take care! You just
do it on your own terms.

 [open-pastures]: /blog/2013/07/04/onto-greener-open-pastures/

So this is my suggestion to independent free software hackers: find a
free software friendly company, that allows - or even encourages - you
to work on your own things too. That way, you can pay your bills, and
work on your hobbies, and best of all: **keep** them as hobbies, so it
does not become a burden. When a hobby becomes your job, that often
leaves a sour taste behind, when you can't fulfil every need, or fix
every issue.

Get a free software day-job, and keep your hobby as such, and everyone
benefits. You get to keep your sanity, and users will receive better
care, because the developers do what they love, and not what they have
to.

You give up some of your freedoms, yes, by not being independent. But
being independent is not always the right choice. For some people, it
may well be, for some, not so much. My experience over the past 15
years or so, is that independence brings a lot more headache than I'm
willing to deal with. I'd rather work for a free software friendly
company, where, after three years, I get paid to write and contribute
to free software, and take care of my personal projects on the side,
than try do all of it on my own.

None of the software I wrote is worth a full salary, and none of them
requires me to work full time on them, either. I could, mind you, I
have enough ideas lined up to keep me busy for years. But do I want
to? Do I want to burn myself out?

No. The day job satisfies my hunger for contributing to a widely used
piece of software, and my hobby projects satisfy my exploratory needs.
I'm happy this way, and I'm very happy that thanks to the work and
dedication of some amazing people, we got this far, that one can have
a day job and independent projects too, that are all free software,
without having to depend on fairly unreliable sources, such as
donations (mind you, donations are a nice extra).

There are, of course, different situations, and different people. What
works for one, may not work for the other. This is what worked for me,
and I felt the need to share it, lest anyone thinks that the world's
darker than it really is.
