---
title: "Rebuttals, or the lack of thereof"
date: 2013-03-19 11:35
tags: [Debian, News]
---

It is customary during [Debian Project Leader elections][dpl-ele] to
write a rebuttal of the other candidate's platform. However, this is
very hard to do this year, as there are a lot of overlaps between
platforms, goals and ideas this time around. It is hard to rebute
another platform, without also rebuting one's own. So instead of
trying to highlight where I disagree (there's very little of that, if
at all), I'd like to point out where I found each platform lacking.

Mind you, these notes are primarily based off of the platforms,
because I'm sadly still behind on my [debian-vote@][vote-list] reading
list. Furthermore, due to the high level of similarity between
platforms, I will not always single out one or the other, but mention
what I found lacking, or troublesome in general instead. So unless
stated otherwise, my thoughts below apply to both
[Moray's][platform-moray] and [Lucas'][platform-lucas] platforms.

 [dpl-ele]: http://www.debian.org/vote/2013/vote_001
 [vote-list]: https://lists.debian.org/debian-vote/2013/03/threads.html
 [platform-moray]: http://www.debian.org/vote/2013/platforms/moray
 [platform-lucas]: http://www.debian.org/vote/2013/platforms/lucas

<!-- more -->

The thing I miss most from both platforms is the curious lack of plans
about non-packaging project members (something which I strongly
emphasize in my [own platform][platform-algernon]). Similarly, even
though Moray does mention encouraging more local events, I find those
few paragraphs a little bit lacking; and Lucas does not even mention
local teams in his platform, even though they are a very, very
important part of the wider Debian community, and a terrific tool in
our asset. They can further our reach by long miles! Considering their
importance, little's said about either local teams or local events,
even when the candidate does explicitly recognise their importance.

 [platform-algernon]: http://www.debian.org/vote/2013/platforms/algernon

On the other hand, Lucas writes about innovation within Debian (which
I found lacking in Moray's platform) - but while he does bring up the
topic, I sadly found that section of his platform vague, a mistake I
made last year myself, and which I tried to avoid this time, by
explicitly listing a few of my ideas on how I'd imagine inspiring &
motivating people (which, in turn, would foster innovation within the
project).

From what I see - and I may be wrong here, and I am obviously biased -
both platforms are reasonably explicit when it comes to easier topics,
things that we know to work, and which we'd all continue doing in the
very same spirit as our predecessor. But when it comes to
experimenting, to new ideas, I found both platforms too vague. There
are exceptions, of course, Moray's intern idea for example is
sufficiently well explained, as far as it is possible within the
limits of a platform. I found no similar thing in Lucas' platform,
however, most of the ideas he explained were technical things, and
those are the areas where we're fairly good at, where we already have
a reasonably chance of improving - and thus, an easier topic. I was
suprised by Lucas' platform, because even though he lists the need for
experimentation important, the lack of truly experimental ideas was
lacking - I found more in Moray's platform.

All in all, I found the discussions on [debian-vote@][vote-list] much
more useful so far, than the platforms, a lot of things were asked and
answered there that the platforms did not touch.

 [vote-list]: https://lists.debian.org/debian-vote/2013/03/threads.html
