---
title: "Bootstrapping Madness"
date: 2013-12-01 23:00
tags: [News]
---

I have been suffering from a nasty case of burnout during the past
month, combined with some other issues, I was just barely able to
function, had no inspiration, nor motivation to do anything. Today
marks the end of that period! I finally had enough willpower to sit
down and sew new clothes for this website here. I wanted to do that
for a while now, I wasn't happy with the [old design][old-design]
anymore. It served its purpose, but it was using an ancient Bootstrap,
had no support for OpenGraph tags, nor for various sharing-links. I
could hack all those in, even upgrade to Bootstrap 3 while there, but
if I do that, I may as well change the look and feel of the site
again. I seem to do that twice a year, by the looks of it.

 [old-design]: /blog/2013/03/09/straight-jacket/

<!-- more -->

One thing I noticed is that people have trouble finding my e-mail,
which is reasonable, because it's not written anywhere. I made a nice
little <strong>Contacts</strong> menu on the new sidebar, which also
tells visitors my e-mail address.

I also reintroduced the sidebar, because all the links expanded on the
bottom were too far away. While I'm not a big fan of sidebars, this
one looks nicer than the [first one I had][first-sidebar], and is much
more useful than the drop-down menus I experimented with before.

 [first-sidebar]: /blog/2013/01/27/some-more-madness/

The theme got more blue instead of green, and flattened too. Most
pages and posts now have social sharing links at the bottom, as an
experiment, mostly.

But one of the funnier things is that you can now browse my blog posts
with the keyboard or a touch-screen! Pressing <kbd>j</kbd> will
advance to the next post, pressing <kbd>k</kbd> will select the
previous one, and pressing <kbd>d</kbd> will open the yearly archive.
Swiping left and right on a touch-screen also allows one to quickly
move between posts.

There are probably a few rough edges here and there which I did not
notice while reviewing the results, please feel free to tweet issues
to me (or [open a GitHub issue][madness-issue]).

 [madness-issue]: https://github.com/algernon/madness/issues/new

I'm not sure how long this theme will last, but at least I like this
better on my Android, and feels nicer on the desktop too, but perhaps
that's just the scent of something new.
