---
title: "A Requiem for Objects - thoughts after a presentation"
date: 2013-05-26 21:00
tags: [Technology, Clojure, News, Video]
---

When [OpenAcademy][oa] started, I immediately found it a terrific
idea: series of high quality, educational, thought-provoking lectures
and talks, for free. A great opportunity both to learn and to teach,
to stretch all of our imagination. I enjoyed past events, and this
year, gave a talk... and a half, and it was a most enjoyable
experience. It wasn't the first talk I ever gave, but the first I gave
for over a few dozen people in the audience, and the first one where
we spiced the lecture up with a spoonful of drama. We took an already
controversial topic, I wrote and delivered a presentation fired up
with flames, and then, together with [Athos][athos], we turned it into
a coding challenge, with critique of each other's methods, code and
anything else we felt like arguing about.

As far as I can tell, and from what I've heard back, what we came up
with, was a great success. Can't wait to see the video, once it
becomes available - it's a lot different from my own point of view,
would love to see how the audience experienced our little play.

 [oa]: https://facebook.com/openacademy
 [athos]: http://athoshun.eu/

<!-- more -->

I don't quite remember how it all started, how we came up with the
idea of doing things this way. We did something similar earlier, when
[Athos][athos] gave a short internal presentation at
[BalaBit][balabit] about the FizzBuzz kata, and I interfered in the
end, from the audience. Well, our presentation at [OpenAcademy][oa]
was something similar, but reversed, and a whole lot more provocative.
I loved watching the audience, the tension on their faces; their
laughs when I said something obviously exaggerated. I enjoyed every
moment of it, and want to thank both [Athos][athos] for being my
partner in crime and for all the help and work he also put into our
little session, and the audience for bearing with us, even when what
we delivered was quite unconventional.

 [oa]: https://facebook.com/openacademy
 [athos]: http://athoshun.eu/
 [balabit]: http://www.balabit.com/

But what did we do? I dressed for the occasion: [suit & tie][suited],
to deliver a requiem for objects and object-oriented programming (my
[slides][slides] are available, in hungarian). I chose a topic that I
believed to be thought-provoking, to stir the interest in the
audience, and delivered a speech that was full of exaggerations, that
only focused on the bad side of OOP, and I tried my best to deliver
these flames hard and without mercy. Following the presentation, when
I held a little dramatic pause, [Athos][athos] came and the real show
began! Quite a dramatic entrance, when you start to argue with the
presenter, so much so, that he challenged you to a duel of code.

 [suited]: https://twitter.com/Bazsi771/status/337609188542910465
 [slides]: http://algernon.github.io/impressions/gyaszbeszed-az-objektumok-felett/

And [what a duel it was][screencast]! That is something I can't
describe with words, it must be seen. But until the recording becomes
available, you can see the screencast we used as part of our session,
below:

 [screencast]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kz-fjsg48hI

<iframe width="640" height="480" src="http://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/Kz-fjsg48hI?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

And now that we're past the presentation, when we collected quite a
lot of very useful feedback (thanks everyone!), it is time to sit back
and figure out how to shock you all even more.
