---
title: "syslog-ng 3.4.1 released"
date: 2013-01-31 13:15
tags: [News, syslog-ng]
---

I'm proud to announce that culminating a year's worth of development,
[syslog-ng][sng] 3.4.1 [has been released][341-release]! This is the
first stable release from the 3.4 branch, the successor of 3.3, which
was originally released in October, 2011. This is the first time I
have the privilege to maintain a branch of syslog-ng from even before
its first stable release (I [took over 3.3][33-takeover] in last May;
3.4 with RC1). It sports a fair amount of new major features compared
to previous stable releases, and is a worthy successor of the 3.3
branch (which will continue to be maintained and supported for a good
while too).

 [sng]: http://www.balabit.com/network-security/syslog-ng/opensource-logging-system/overview
 [341-release]: https://lists.balabit.hu/pipermail/syslog-ng-announce/2013-January/000154.html
 [33-takeover]: https://lists.balabit.hu/pipermail/syslog-ng/2012-May/018885.html

<!-- more -->

## Highlights of the year

It is hard to keep the list of highlights reasonably short, there are
so many great improvements and features that it really is a hard job
selecting only a few.

### [Junctions & channels][junctions]

One of the first big changes to land in 3.4 was
[**junctions**][junctions], which improve the flexibility of the
syslog-ng configuration language. This allows combining sources with
their closely tied processing functionality (like parser, rewrite and
filter statements), among other things.

 [junctions]: http://bazsi.blogs.balabit.com/2012/01/syslog-ng-flexibility-improvements/

### [value-pairs() key rewriting support][vp-key-rewrite]

The [**value-pairs()**][value-pairs] feature that was introduced in
3.3 now supports renaming keys in bulk, by applying various
transformations onto them. This makes it very easy to rearrange keys
into different structures, thereby increasing the flexibility
syslog-ng provides, and making it even easier to integrate it with
pretty much anything out there.

 [value-pairs]: https://www.balabit.com/sites/default/files/documents/syslog-ng-ose-3.3-guides/syslog-ng-ose-v3.3-guide-admin-en.html/concepts-value-pairs.html
 [vp-key-rewrite]:
 https://github.com/balabit/syslog-ng-3.4/commit/ddc7c2539bd66fa35e8df441e4baf58e87b6708d

### [AMQP destination][amqp-dest]

The [**AMQP**][amqp-dest] destinatin plugin is important in many ways:
not only is it a useful plugin, to which none similar existed before
in syslog-ng, it is also the first complete plugin that was
contributed by a third party.

The destination allows one to publish log messages to an AMQP-capable
messaging server, such as [rabbitmq][rabbitmq], in a very elegant and
smart way, that allows for very fine-grained message processing on
both sides.

 [amqp-dest]: https://github.com/balabit/syslog-ng-3.4/commit/efdee1072316674459b354f58b7621d9d97be4da
 [rabbitmq]: http://www.rabbitmq.com/

### [Improved JSON support][json-parser]

In the world of HTML5 and the web, JSON is one of the most used
serialization formats. Former versions of syslog-ng already supported
emitting messages in JSON format, but those were flat structures only,
and syslog-ng was not able to parse JSON serialized messages, either.

With the release of 3.4, this all changed: the
<code>$(format-json)</code> template function emits structured JSON,
treating the internal representation of key names as if they were in
dot-notation.

Furthermore, we have a [**json-parser**][json-parser] too, which makes
syslog-ng able to receive JSON formatted data, and do a lot of
interesting things with it.

 [json-parser]: https://github.com/balabit/syslog-ng-3.4/commit/e5569687bba2551c89a78faee55bcf8b4944066f

## Contributors!

Compared to the [first commit on the 3.4 branch][3.4-first], a total
of **727** patches have been committed, producing the following
diffstat:

>  395 files changed, 28908 insertions(+), 13491 deletions(-)

That is a huge amount of work, work that would not have been possible
without the tremendous amount of help the community contributed, in
form of bug reports, requests, patches and even whole plugins!

I would hereby like to thank all the people who contributed to
syslog-ng's development in one form or another. In no particular
order: Balazs Scheidler, Evan Rempel, Chris Johnson, Ben Lentz, Jose
Pedro Oliveira, Peter Czanik, Balint Kovacs, Brian Kroth, Jan
Schaumann, Tamas Pal, Viktor Juhasz, Attila Nagy, Conrad Hoffman,
Csaba Major, Cy Schubert, Eun Kyung, Marvin Nipper, Michael Hocke,
Peter Gyongyosi, Sandor Geller, "Sergey", shih dane, Alexander
Komyagin, "EgonB", Imre Lazar, Mark Ulmer, Patrick Hemmer, Attila
Magyar, Peter Gyorko, Martin Grauel, Hendrik VÃ¶lker, Heiko Gerstung,
Andreas Piesk, Matthias Runge, Jakub Jankowski, Russ Milne, Daniel
Neubacher, "Dit", Lennert Buytenhek, Jan Schaumann, Anton Koldaev,
Dave Reisner, Alex Zimnitsky, Alexander Komyagin, "Mads", Mark
Wooding, Cary Taylor, Eric Lindvall, Zoltan Fried, Robert Fekete,
Traiano Welcome, "whille", Yuri Arabadji and everyone else I may have
forgotten (sorry!).

 [3.4-first]: https://github.com/balabit/syslog-ng-3.4/commit/5a12e99e264a262a0f465d5d63a57c14cf72e644
