---
title: "Looking ahead"
date: 2014-09-15 08:40
tags: [Life, .planet.debian, syslog-ng]
---

A little more than a [year ago][greener-pastures], I started working
as a [syslog-ng OSE](http://www.syslog-ng.org/) developer full-time.
That was a tremendously important milestone in my career, as one of
the goals I wanted to achieve in life - to work on free software for a
living - became a reality. Rocket boots were fired up, and we
accomplised quite a lot in the past year, and I'm very, very proud of
the work we did - we, the whole community. I enjoyed every bit of it,
but as it turns out, some of the other desires I wish to pursue, and
new challenges I am looking for, will lead me in a different
direction. At the end of August, I handed in my resignation, and the
past friday was my last work day at
[BalaBit](https://www.balabit.com/).

 [greener-pastures]: /blog/2013/07/04/onto-greener-open-pastures/

There are a few questions that will likely be asked, and I'll try my
best to answer them beforehand. Questions such as: **What will happen
to syslog-ng?**, **Who will be the new maintainer?**, **How does this
affect your Debian work?**, and so on, and so forth.

<!-- more -->

syslog-ng
=========

##### **What will happen to syslog-ng?**

After careful consideration, with the syslog-ng team at BalaBit, we
decided that they will take over OSE-related responsibilities as well.
They will do releases, they will engage the people on GitHub and the
mailing list, they will take care of the
[@sngOSE](https://twitter.com/sngOSE) twitter account.

During the past few months, we've been working on pushing the team
closer to the community: we moved issues to GitHub, the team submitted
pull requests, and in general, we moved closer to each other in every
possible way.

While they may not have the open source maintainer experience I had,
they are all capable folk, and will quickly learn on the job. The team
taking over also has the advantage of having more manpower, and better
collaboration between the premium edition and OSE.

##### **Who will be the syslog-ng maintainer?**

There will be no single bottle neck. This has both good and bad
implications, but I believe the good ones outweigh the disadvantages.

##### **What about the roadmap? When will 3.6.1 happen?**

The roadmap is already laid out for 3.6, but it is the team's
judgement when it will be released. The latest 3.6.0beta2 was released
together with the team, too. I expect there will be delays (I planned
3.6.1 to be released on September 27th), but not much; a few weeks,
perhaps.

##### **What will your involvement in syslog-ng development be?**

With changing jobs, my involvement will drastically decrease. I will
remain a syslog-ng user, and I will continue packaging it for Debian
and Ubuntu, and will keep my
[unofficial repository](/projects/debian/) running. I do not see
myself contributing much, perhaps bug reports, opinions and an
occasional idea.

Nevertheless, my expertise is still considerable, and I will help the
team and the community in whatever way I can - but I will be severely
time constrained.

Debian
======

While BalaBit were very free software friendly, and allowed me to work
on Debian tasks from time to time, my other activities took up an
increasingly big chunk of my paid time, and I had to cut back a
little. At the new job, things will be a bit different: while I won't
have as much time to do Debian work on the job, I will have a lot more
free time, in which I hope to do more for Debian.

I will - as promised above - continue maintaining syslog-ng, and all
other packages I currently maintain. Apart from those, I wish to make
myself more useful within the Clojure and Hy teams.

Miscellaneous
=============

##### **Where to are you moving?**

This is something I will answer in due time. For now, I will have two
weeks off, which I wish to spend my way, picking up projects I
neglected for far too long.
