---
title: "Happy"
date: 2014-08-30 08:15
tags: [Life, .planet.debian]
---

For the past decade or so, I wasn't exactly happy. I struggled with
low self esteem, likely bordered on depression at times. I
disappointed friends, family and most of all, myself. There were times
I not only disliked the person I was, but hated it. This wasn't
healthy, nor forward-looking, I knew that all along, and that made the
situation even worse. I tried to maintain a more enthusiastic mask,
pretended that nothing's wrong. Being fully aware that there actually
is nothing terribly wrong, while still feeling worthless, just added
insult to injury.

In the past few years, things started to improve. I had a job, things
to care about, things to feel passionate about, people around me who
knew nothing about the shadows on my heart, yet still smiled, still
supported me. But years of self loathing does not disappear overnight.

Then one day, some six months ago, my world turned upside down. Years
of disappointment, hate and loathing - poof, gone. Today, I'm happy.
This is something I have not been able to tell myself in all honesty
in this century yet (except maybe for very brief periods of time, when
I was happy for someone else).

<!-- more -->

<img src="/assets/asylum/images/posts/happy/engaged.480.jpg"
  width="269" height="480" alt="[Engaged]"
  style="float:left;margin-right:1em;">

A little over six months ago, I met someone, someone I could open up
to. I still remember the first hour, where we talked about our own
shortcomings and bad habits. At the end of the day, when She ordered
me a crazy-pancake (a pancake with half a dozen random fillings), I
felt happy. She is everything I could ever wish for, and more. She
isn't just the woman I love, with whom I'll say the words in a couple
of months. She's much more than a partner, a friend a soul-mate
combined in one person. She is my inspiration, my role model and my
Guardian Angel too.

I no longer feel worthless, nor inadequate. I am disappointed with
myself no more. I do not hate, I do not loathe, and past mistakes,
past feelings seem so far away! I can share everything with Her, She
does not judge, nor condemn: she supports and helps. With Her, I am
happy. With Her, I am who I wanted myself to be. With Her, I am
complete.

Thank You.
