---
title: "GSoC2014: syslog-ng ACCEPTED"
date: 2014-02-25 14:30
tags: [Technology, syslog-ng, Debian, .planet.debian]
---

We have applied to become a mentoring organisation for Google Summer
of Code both in 2012, and in 2013, and both times, we did not get in
(but both times, we participated under the umbrella of the
[openSUSE][openSUSE] project, many thanks!). This year, we did not
apply as [BalaBit][balabit], but as the [syslog-ng project][sng], and
we put a lot of effort not just into the proposals, but on the
organisation image as well, with a brand-new [website][sng], among
other things. This paid off, and unlike the past two years, we were
[**accepted**][sng:accept] to the
[Google Summer of Code 2014][gsoc2014] programme! I would like to
thank both [openSUSE][openSUSE] for their past help, and for them
vouching for us this year, and [Debian][debian] too for supporting our
application with their vouch as well.

This year, we have - as per usual - an interesting list of projects to
choose from, with varied difficulties, touching a wide range of
syslog-ng components. I am confident that any student interested in
logging, or systems infrastracture in general, would find something
interesting on our [idea page][ideas]. But if not, we are certainly
open to accepting student proposals too.

 [sng]: http://www.syslog-ng.org/
 [balabit]: http://www.balabit.com/
 [gsoc2014]: http://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/homepage/google/gsoc2014
 [openSUSE]: http://en.opensuse.org/Main_Page
 [debian]: http://www.debian.org/
 [sng:accept]: http://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/org2/google/gsoc2014/syslog_ng
 [ideas]: https://github.com/balabit/syslog-ng/wiki/GSoC2014-idea-&-project-list

<!-- more -->

Unlike in previous years, we have a much better infrastracture (in the
form of [The Incubator][sng:incubator]), more [documentation][howtos],
more mentors, and projects that are described in more detail, where
we, as mentors, have a better idea of what we'd like to see. This is a
very interesting opportunity for us too, not just for students, as for
the first time in our history within the Google Summer of Code
programme, we are on our own, without an umbrella organisation, and we
have to prove our worth. And we certainly will do that. What our
students built [last year][gsoc2013] is the bare minimum this year:
we're upping the goals, for we want to build even more awesome
features.

 [sng:incubator]: https://github.com/balabit/syslog-ng-incubator
 [howtos]: http://asylum.madhouse-project.org/blog/tags/howto/
 [gsoc2013]: http://asylum.madhouse-project.org/blog/2013/10/08/gsoc2013/

Of course, building amazing things is just a side-effect, because the
real purpose of the programme is to teach, and to get people involved
in the free software community as a whole. Our mentors are all
contributors to various free software projects, and we'd like our
students to become such contributors too, to let them see that while
the tasks may be challenging, the rewards are well worth it. Seeing
**your** code used in production is a terrific feeling. Talking with
the community, with the potential users is incredibly useful, and
rewarding too. We'd like our students to be involved throughly and
deeply, we will let them see the beauty the Free Software world has to
offer.

They will also learn a ton about the internals of syslog-ng, a
software used on millions on devices, from embedded devices to
room-size cluster monsters. We'll touch multi threading, in-software
communication, scalability, performance and data structure topics.
We'll fight with ancient, legacy systems, **and win**! The road ahead
is challenging, but full of adventure.

If you are a student, [contact us](https://www.syslog-ng.org/#top),
either on [IRC](irc://chat.freenode.net/#syslog-ng), on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/sngOSE), or the
[mailing list](https://lists.balabit.hu/mailman/listinfo/syslog-ng),
we are happy to answer any questions you may have. If you are a user
of syslog-ng, we would welcome feedback on our [ideas][ideas], and new
proposals too!

 [ideas]: https://github.com/balabit/syslog-ng/wiki/GSoC2014-idea-&-project-list
