---
title: "Something"
date: 2015-07-15 12:00
tags: [Fiction]
---

Somebody somewhere had some job doing something for some amount of
some kind of compensation. Sometimes this somebody took some route to
some house where some others lived too, along with some other things
(who may or may not have lived). Of course, some houses change over
some time, and some people choose some other route to some different
house after some time, perhaps even to some other people than the some
they lived with before. Sometimes.

Sometimes someone meets somebody, and some feelings develop; some
ceremony is held, which some people attend; some people then go
someplace far away for some time to do something else, while some
others don't. Sometimes, some people buy some house, and equip it with
some furniture. Sometimes they go home to some place after doing some
work (or something else, sometimes people do other things than
work). Some people have a kitchen, some have a living room in the same
space as the kitchen (some people are weird, huh?). Some have a
favourite table where they read some paper in the morning, drink some
beverage some call coffee. Some prefer cocoa with milk. Some people
sometimes mix some of these. Sometimes.

Some days seem the same to somebody, and some people call that
boredom. Somebody may call it routine. Sometimes perception fails
somebody, and routine clouds someone's vision. Sometimes somebody
needs someone else to clear some clouds, to see some rainbows, and
feel some butterflies in some organs in someone's body. Sometimes.

<!-- more -->

Somewhere in this story, I hoped to have some point. But sometime
along the way, I lost it, and for some reason, I cannot find it
anymore. Sometimes this happens. Sometimes.
