---
title: "It's a kind of Magic"
date: 2015-08-11 10:15
tags: [Technology, Rants]
---

I used to look up to and admire [Robert C. Martin][unclebob], his
Clean Coder series taught me a lot, and I enjoyed some of his blog
posts, too. But lately, some of the things I read from him made me
uneasy, and not in a good way. When I read his
[latest piece][magic-go-away], I felt genuinely sorry for him, and
those who follow his advice. "*Make the Magic go away*" is already a
terrible title, and the rest doesn't make it any better, either.

 [unclebob]: https://twitter.com/unclebobmartin
 [magic-go-away]: http://blog.cleancoder.com/uncle-bob/2015/08/06/LetTheMagicDie.html

The picture painted therein is an incredibly depressing one. Before
reading further, glance through the mentioned writing, that will make
this response of mine a little bit clearer.

<!-- more -->

The basic premise of the article is that frameworks suck, there are no
new ideas in computer languages lately (in the past two decades, or
so). The reason we come up with new frameworks and languages is
because previous frameworks and languages are awful, and we keep
reinventing the same old things over and over again, because people
don't learn from the past.

Now this - coming from a craftsman - is astonishing. Do we have an
abundance of languages, frameworks and libraries? Yes. Do a lot of
them suck? Yes. But let me ask you this: if you call yourself a
craftsman, a master, an artist of a field, does it really bother you
when other artists express themselves differently?

How many portraits did painters paint? How many times have we
photographed the sunset? How many rocking chairs do we create daily?
How many times did musicians write down those few tones in different
order and length, to make the same old sound? Is that really a
problem? There are millions of awful paintings, countless hours of
music noone in their right mind would listen to. But you know what?
These too, serve a purpose. A purpose you and I may not
understand. But we don't have to, either. Not everything in this world
is meant to be for **you**.

While one may well think that this whole repeating cycle of
reinventing the wheel is a terrible curse upon us, I respectfully
disagree. Not because I think we need more languages and frameworks,
no. I disagree with the suggestion that all this stems from one's
frustration with the language and frameworks one has access to. I
disagree with the suggestion that the magic languages and frameworks
provide are harmful.

I disagree with the statement that learning an assembly language will
destroy the magic, and that it will make one realise one could write a
C compiler or a JVM, or all sorts of things. I disagree, because I
learned assembly (x86, mipsel and a bit of sparc assembly, to be
exact), as did a lot of other people, yet, it had the exact opposite
effect! I learned to appreciate the magic that lets me be productive,
the magic people put into the tools of my trade, that I use daily. It
made me appreciate the magic I do not have to write. It made me
realize that even if I spent a lifetime on it, I couldn't write a
decent 3D engine, no matter how hard I try. I know many computer
languages, I have access to the material required, I can study
existing 3D engines, even their source code, but there is no way I
could write my own. Because there's magic that is beyond me.

Humans, you see, have their limits. One could study drawings all day
for years, recognise the styles and techniques painters use, but that
alone wouldn't make you able to paint a Mona Lisa. Copy? Yes, surely.

Learning assembly did not give me a new perspective. I do not see the
machine code when I look at C, or Java. I do not look at them as
another expression of the low level machine language. I used to, mind
you, but now I know better. I learned that there are limits to the
human mind, and one's time is far more valuable than trying to live a
life without magic. I learned to appreciate the work others have done,
that I do not have to. I respect their craftmanship, even if I
sometimes disagree with their choices. Even if I end up creating my
own kind of magic.

Simiarly, writing a web server, an XML parser, or anything else,
really, does not make the magic go away. It helps you understand the
domain better, and that's great, well recommended to anyone interested
in learning. But I does not make the magic go away. Not unless you're
doing something terribly wrong.

After one painted a picture, wrote a poem, a song or a novel, the
magic of admiring another person's work does not go away. After I
crafted a necklace for a loved one, the magic of a Goldsmith's work
will not go away - quite the opposite. One will have a deeper insight
into the intricate work being done under the hood. It may very well
lead to the conclusion that while one may be a great craftsman, a
smart one uses the appropriate tools instead of writing his own.

Because if you discard the magic, throw away code you don't control,
code you didn't write ([NIH syndrome][NIH], anyone?), won't you end up
reinventing the same old thing again?

 [NIH]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Not_invented_here

With all that said, let me be frank: I don't like frameworks. I find
them limiting and often too complex for my needs. There is some truth
in the article, namely that frameworks are best chosen with care. But
the reasons to do that are not because one should fully rid oneself of
magic. Not because it is just a new iteration of the same old, same
old. But because composable libraries give you a lot more freedom and
legroom, even if they come at a higher up-front cost.

But then, sometimes frameworks are the right choice: be smart, study
the magic, and see if it is an acceptable kind of magic to you. Don't
rid yourself of magic, that will only lead to pain and suffering in
the long run. A shallow, depressing view of the world.

Magic is good, and I appreciate the wizards who make my days shine;
the magicians who make me happier, and more productive. And I doubly
love those that also teach me their magic, by showing me how it is
done. Instead of killing off magic - embrace it, learn it, improve it!
